Ever have bits of information saved across your computer? A list of potential dog names, articles to read, or directions on how to set up a new webserver.

I do. My computer is like a modern day office desk filled with various sticky notes scattered all over the place. But instead of actual sticky notes, I use text files. Lots of text files. So many I lose track of where they are!

I wrote Simple Docs to get a better grip on this. Though the type of data I store in these files is very varied, the format is the same - it's all just text: headings, sentences, and paragraphs. Simple Docs gives me one central location to store this information and mirrors all these files on a website, in an easily readible format that's mobile friendly. Even better it's easy to set up.

When building the tool I kept this idea of simplicity going.

Websites can do incredible things these days, which is great! But it also means sometimes these sites require a lot of knowledge specific to a particular website. How do I create a new user in WordPress again? Oh wait, who can see my Facebook posts?

Most of the time this is easy to remember. But sometimes I forget. And every time I do I feel like I'm wasting time, or worse, I feel dumb.

A lot of this complexity is reproducing functionality that already exists on computers. I'm a programmer by trade, so I know computers really well. I knew there's already user accounts, passwords, navigation tools, privacy controls, and search functionalities. What if instead of building all of these things again on the web, I built on top of what already exists, what I already know.

Simple docs aims to do just that, make things simple. Easy to setup, with almost no upkeep required. Edit old documentation and write new ones with the same tools I do now. Built on well known tools so everything is easy to remember from searching, to navigating, to privacy controls.

It helped me get a handle on those little, but often times important, pieces of information I kept letting fall through the cracks. Hope it can help you too!

Chris Laskey
